### Scrollbars

The scrollbars allow you to change the text view displayed in the editing area.  By default, both scrollbars display a minimalist, thin scrollbar.  Using a mouse wheel gesture will also move the viewing area up and down (the slider in the vertical and horizontal scrollbars will give an indication as to what portion of the file is currently in view).  If the text area is not scrollable, the associated scrollbars will be hidden from view.  Moving the mouse cursor into the scrollbar area will make the slider larger so that it is easier to grab, if necessary.

Besides using mouse scrolling to change the view, you can grab the scroll slider and move it to any spot in the file.  Left clicking in the scrollbar area will cause the view to jump to the selected point of the file.  Right clicking in the scrollbar area will adjust the view by a single page (if the area above the slider is right-clicked, the view will move up by a page; if the area below the slider is right-clicked, the view will move down by a page).  Right-clicking on the slider will not change the view.

If TKE is operating in multi-pane mode (i.e., two editing buffers are displayed side-by-side) and the View / Panes / Enable Synchronized Scrolling option is set, scrolling either editing buffer will automatically scroll the other pane’s editing buffer in lock step.  This is useful if you are manually viewing differences between two different files.  When synchronized scrolling mode is enabled, the scrollbar sliders will change to a different color (red in most cases) to indicate the current mode.  To assist in aligning the panes, you can set the current cursor in both panes to the lines that you would like to see aligned and choose the View / Panes / Align Panes menu option which will cause both panes to align their views such that the current lines in each pane will be vertically aligned.  Once that has been set, enabling synchronized scrolling will keep those lines in vertical alignment.

In addition to changing the view, the vertical scrollbar on the left side of the editing buffer can also display a simple file map.  If markers are set in the file, they will be displayed in the scrollbar area with a horizontal line using the same color of the marker in the line number area.  For difference views, the difference lines will also be drawn in the scrollbar area.  The top of the file scrollbar area will display map information for the first line in the file while the bottom of the file scrollbar area will display map information for the last line in the file.