## Connection Bookmark Sidebar

On the left side of the window is the connection bookmark sidebar.  This is the area which shows all available connections that have been previously setup and saved.  The sidebar is organized by groups.  By default, a single group called “Group” will occupy the sidebar.  This group may be renamed and/or deleted (if another group exists in the sidebar — at least one group must exist in the sidebar).  To create a new group, click the “+” button in the button bar and select the “New Group” option.  This will display a small popup window allowing you to specify the new group name.  Entering a unique name and clicking the “Create” button will create the new group in the sidebar.  Groups may be moved around in the sidebar by selecting and dragging them to a new position in the sidebar.

To rename a group name, right click the group name and select the “Rename Group” menu option.  This will display a renaming popup.  Entering a name and selecting the “Rename” button will change the group name in the sidebar.  Note that groups may only be renamed if they do not contain any active connections (i.e., all connections within the group are in the disconnected state — noted by the lack of a connection icon next to the connection name).

To delete a group name, right click the group name and select the “Delete Group” menu option.  A confirmation popup will be displayed to confirm the group deletion (which will delete all connections within the group as well).  Like the “Rename Group” option, this option will only be available if all of the group connections are in the disconnected state.

To create a new remote connection, either select a group name, right-click and select the “New Connection” menu option or select a group and click on the “+” button in the lower left corner of the window and select the “New Connection” option.  This will make display the connection editor pane (described below).  Clicking on the “Create” button after filling in all of the non-optional fields will add the connection to the sidebar under the group specified with the “Group” menu in the connection editor.  You may move a disconnected connection to a different group or change its position within the group by dragging the connection to a new position within the sidebar.

To edit an existing connection, right click the connection and select the “Edit Connection” option.  To delete the connection, right click the connection and select the “Delete Connection” option.  A confirmation popup will be displayed prior to deleting the connection.  To test a connection for connectivity, right click the connection and select the “Test Connection”, after a moment a popup will be displayed indicating the availability of the connection.  To start a connection, either double-click the connection or right-click the connection and select the “Open Connection” option.  After the remote connection has been made, the connection’s directory contents will be displayed in the remote file viewer area on the right of the window.  To disconnect an open connection, right-click the connection and select the “Close Connection” option.  Note that when a connection is currently in the opened state (as indicated in the sidebar with the connected icon next to the connection name), only the “Close Connection” option will be enabled.